:title: Logstash

.. _logstash:

Logstash
########

Logstash is a high-performance indexing and search engine for logs.

At a Glance
===========

:Hosts:
  * http://logstash.openstack.org
  * logstash-worker\*.openstack.org
  * elasticsearch\*.openstack.org
:Puppet:
  * https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack-infra/puppet-logstash/tree/
  * :file:`modules/openstack_project/manifests/logstash.pp`
  * :file:`modules/openstack_project/manifests/logstash_worker.pp`
  * :file:`modules/openstack_project/manifests/elasticsearch.pp`
:Configuration:
  * :file:`modules/openstack_project/files/logstash`
  * :file:`modules/openstack_project/templates/logstash`
:Projects:
  * http://logstash.net/
  * http://kibana.org/
  * http://www.elasticsearch.org/
  * http://crm114.sourceforge.net/
:Bugs:
  * https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/project/748
  * https://logstash.jira.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa
  * https://github.com/rashidkpc/Kibana/issues
  * https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues

Overview
========

Logs from Jenkins test runs are sent to logstash where they are
indexed and stored.  Logstash facilitates reviewing logs from multiple
sources in a single test run, searching for errors or particular
events within a test run, as well as searching for log event trends
across test runs.

System Architecture
===================

There are four major layers in our Logstash setup.

1. Log Pusher Scripts.
   Subscribes to the Jenkins ZeroMQ Event Publisher listening for build
   finished events. When a build finishes an event is received from
   Jenkins which is then converted into Gearman jobs specific to that
   event for each log file we care about. These jobs trigger Gearman
   workers that then fetch the logs generated by that build, chop them
   up, annotate them with Jenkins build info and finally sends them to a
   Logstash indexer process.
2. Logstash Indexer.
   Reads these log events from the log pusher, filters them to remove
   unwanted lines, collapses multiline events together, and parses
   useful information out of the events before shipping them to
   ElasticSearch for storage and indexing.
3. ElasticSearch.
   Provides log storage, indexing, and search.
4. Kibana.
   A Logstash oriented web client for ElasticSearch. You can perform
   queries on your Logstash logs in ElasticSearch through Kibana using
   the Lucene query language.

Each layer scales horizontally. As the number of logs grows we can add
more log pushers, more Logstash indexers, and more ElasticSearch nodes.
Currently we have multiple Logstash worker nodes that pair a log pusher
with a Logstash indexer. We did this as each Logstash process can only
dedicate a single thread to filtering log events which turns into a
bottleneck very quickly. This looks something like:

::

                  jenkins
                     |
                     |
               gearman-client
                /    |    \
               /     |     \
          gearman gearman gearman
          worker1 worker2 worker3
              |      |      |
         logstash logstash logstash
         indexer1 indexer2 indexer3
              \      |      /
               \     |     /
               elasticsearch
                  cluster
                     |
                     |
                  kibana

Log Pusher
----------

This is a pair of simple Python scripts. The first listens to Jenkins
build events and converts them into Gearman jobs and the second performs
Gearman jobs to push log files into logstash.

Log pushing looks like this:

* Jenkins publishes build complete notifications.
* Receive notification from Jenkins and convert to Gearman jobs.
* Using info in the Gearman job log files are retrieved.
* Log files are processed then shipped to Logstash.

Using Gearman allows us to scale the number of log pushers
horizontally. It is as simple as adding another process that talks to
the Gearman server.

If you are interested in technical details the source of these scripts
can be found at

* https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack-infra/puppet-log_processor/tree/files/log-gearman-client.py
* https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack-infra/puppet-log_processor/tree/files/log-gearman-worker.py

Logstash
--------

Logstash does the heavy lifting of squashing all of our log lines into
events with a common format. It reads the JSON log events from the log
pusher connected to it, deletes events we don't want, parses log lines
to set the timestamp, message, and other fields for the event, then
ships these processed events off to ElasticSearch where they are stored
and made queryable.

At a high level Logstash takes:

::

  {
    "fields" {
      "build_name": "gate-foo",
      "build_numer": "10",
      "event_message": "2013-05-31T17:31:39.113 DEBUG Something happened",
    },
  }

And turns that into:

::

  {
    "fields" {
      "build_name": "gate-foo",
      "build_numer": "10",
      "loglevel": "DEBUG"
    },
    "@message": "Something happened",
    "@timestamp": "2013-05-31T17:31:39.113Z",
  }

It flattens each log line into something that looks very much like
all of the other events regardless of the source log line format. This
makes querying your logs for lines from a specific build that failed
between two timestamps with specific message content very easy. You
don't need to write complicated greps instead you query against a
schema.

The config file that tells Logstash how to do this flattening can be
found at
:file:`modules/openstack_project/templates/logstash/indexer.conf.erb`

This works via the tags that are associated with a given message.

The tags in
:file:`modules/openstack_project/templates/logstash/indexer.conf.erb`
are used to tell logstash how to parse a given file's messages, based
on the file's message format.

When adding a new file to be indexed to
:file:`modules/openstack_project/files/logstash/jenkins-log-client.yaml`
at least one tag from the indexer.conf.erb file should be associated
with the new file.  One can expect to see '{%logmessage%}' instead of
actual message data if indexing is not working properly.

In the event a new file's format is not covered, a patch for
:file:`modules/openstack_project/templates/logstash/indexer.conf.erb`
should be submitted with an appropriate parsing pattern.

ElasticSearch
-------------

ElasticSearch is basically a REST API layer for Lucene. It provides
the storage and search engine for Logstash. It scales horizontally and
loves it when you give it more memory. Currently we run a multi-node
cluster on large VMs to give ElasticSearch both memory and disk space.
Per index (Logstash creates one index per day) we have N+1 replica
redundancy to distribute disk utilization and provide high availability.
Each replica is broken into multiple shards providing inceased indexing
and search throughput as each shard is essentially a valid mini index.

Kibana
------

Kibana is a ruby app sitting behind Apache that provides a nice web UI
for querying Logstash events stored in ElasticSearch. Our install can
be reached at http://logstash.openstack.org. See
:ref:`query-logstash` for more info on using Kibana to perform
queries.

.. _query-logstash:

Querying Logstash
=================

Hop on over to http://logstash.openstack.org and by default you get the
last 15 minutes of everything Logstash knows about in chunks of 100.
We run a lot of tests but it is possible no logs have come in over the
last 15 minutes, change the dropdown in the top left from ``Last 15m``
to ``Last 60m`` to get a better window on the logs. At this point you
should see a list of logs, if you click on a log event it will expand
and show you all of the fields associated with that event and their
values (note Chromium and Kibana seem to have trouble with this at times
and some fields end up without values, use Firefox if this happens).
You can search based on all of these fields and if you click the
magnifying glass next to a field in the expanded event view it will add
that field and value to your search. This is a good way of refining
searches without a lot of typing.

The above is good info for poking around in the Logstash logs, but
one of your changes has a failing test and you want to know why. We
can jumpstart the refining process with a simple query.

``@fields.build_change:"$FAILING_CHANGE" AND @fields.build_patchset:"$FAILING_PATCHSET" AND @fields.build_name:"$FAILING_BUILD_NAME" AND @fields.build_number:"$FAILING_BUILD_NUMBER"``

This will show you all logs available from the patchset and build pair
that failed. Chances are that this is still a significant number of
logs and you will want to do more filtering. You can add more filters
to the queriy using ``AND`` and ``OR`` and parentheses can be used to
group sections of the query. Potential additions to the above query
might be

* ``AND @fields.filename:"logs/syslog.txt"`` to get syslog events.
* ``AND @fields.filename:"logs/screen-n-api.txt"`` to get Nova API events.
* ``AND @fields.loglevel:"ERROR"`` to get ERROR level events.
* ``AND @message"error"`` to get events with error in their message.
  and so on.

General query tips:

* Don't search ``All time``. ElasticSearch is bad at trying to find all
  the things it ever knew about. Give it a window of time to look
  through. You can use the presets in the dropdown to select a window or
  use the ``foo`` to ``bar`` boxes above the frequency graph.
* Only the @message field can have fuzzy searches performed on it. Other
  fields require specific information.
* This system is growing fast and may not always keep up with the load.
  Be patient. If expected logs do not show up immediately after the
  Jenkins job completes wait a few minutes.

crm114
=======

In an effort to assist with automated failure detection, the infra team
has started leveraging crm114 to classify and analyze the messages stored
by logstash.

The tool utilizes a statistical approach for classifying data, and is
frequently used as an email spam detector.  For logstash data, the idea
is to flag those log entries that are not in passing runs and only in
failing ones, which should be useful in pinpointing what caused the
failures.

In the OpenStack logstash system, crm114 attaches an error_pr attribute
to all indexed entries.  Values from -1000.00 to -10.00 should be considered
sufficient to get all potential errors as identified by the program.
Used in a kibana query, it would be structured like this:

::

  error_pr:["-1000.0" TO "-10.0"]


This is still an early effort and additional tuning and refinement should
be expected.  Should the crm114 settings need to be tuned or expanded,
a patch may be submitted for this file, which controls the process:
https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack-infra/puppet-log_processor/tree/files/classify-log.crm

